the church tar is ominously quiet but
barn owls like most birds tend to keep a
low profile when breeding especially
when they have young in the nest
they are the last owls to hatch on the
farm
the male will now be kept busy bringing
in a regular supply of food
field though comes high on the menu
it's a big meal for them now but they'll
still need to catch several a day
a second chick has just emerged all owls
hatch as they were laid one every 48
hours
so there can be several days difference
between the ages of the young in the
same brood
barn owls can only hunt efficiently in
fine weather
rain and wind hinders their search for
prey
so they'll often stockpile enough food
to last a day or two
for the first few weeks their mother
will feed them on the smallest bits
throughout the day and night
at this tender age they're still
vulnerable to cold
it will be a few weeks before they
develop a sufficient layer of downy
feathers
and can be left on their own
um crops need a plentiful supply of rain
to do well
this year it isn't in short supply
for the long-eared owls nesting in
exposed sites
the young must mature fast they need to
the weather here can be ferocious
straight off the north sea
parent birds know the signs well
a rainstorm is on the way
sudden downpours can take a heavy toll
of young birds
so it is just as well that their
mother's feathers can create a
waterproof cloak to protect her
offspring
the sun soon dries rain-soaked feathers
some kinds of owl seem to resist water
better than others
young tawnies appear to be among the
most weatherproof owls
while barn owls are the least
[Music]
you